Chronomancers (Time-mages): a guild of mages dedicated to the manipulation of time and runes. Obviously this is an intriguing 
subject for which to develop powers and around which to base a class, but it's hard to come up with lots of original spells. 
What we've come up with so far is below, and added help is appreciated. Pay special attention to what levels I've assigned to 
which skills, as I'm terrible with balance. The main problem I see with the class as it stands now is that they have very few 
options for in-combat casting. It might be a good idea to give them a few warrior/assassin type skills because of their highly 
heightened reflexes, for no reason other than that it will give them something to do. 


Note on spells versus runes: 
All beneficial spells are self-cast only, though they may be inscribed into rune form (see below). For example, the 
chronomancer tells his groupmate, "Give me your armor/sword" and then puts a rune for celerity into the armor, or a rune for 
pernicity onto the sword. Then, his groupmate wears the gear, and voila, they're affected for X hours - but in rune form, 
rather than in spell form, where it cannot be dispelled by conventional means. 

A chronomancer might also inscribe a rune for langour into a noremove helmet and leave it lying around, then stand there 
rushing and watch, hoping his enemy might pick it up and wear it and be moving too slowly to escape. 


Spells: 
(All casting lags are shown pre-pernicity, which halves casting lag) 
(NONE of these spells are stackable.) 

(12) pernicity 
This spell allows the chronomancer to speed his thoughts and movements slightly, halving the lag on spells and skills, whereas 
the intense concentration required in casting a stasis wall or creating a rune is normally very time consuming. 2 round 
casting lag, level/4 duration. 

You feel yourself thinking more clearly. 
$n's face lights up suddenly, energized with new speed. 

Your thoughts slow down suddenly. 

(14) celerity 
Like pernicity, this spell lets the chronomancer speed his movements slightly more, and remove all terrain- or 
skill/spell-induced movement lag. 2 round casting lag, level/5 duration. 

Your movements begin to come with more ease. 
$n somehow looks much lighter and faster. 

Your legs feel heavy as your movements slow down. 

(22) langour 
The opposite of pernicity, this spell doubles command lag. 2 round casting lag, level/6 duration. 

You feel suddenly burdened mentally, unable to think clearly. 
$N's eyes haze over slightly, and $e becomes somewhat sluggish. 

Your thoughts regain their natural speed. 

(25) stasis field 
This spell contains the target in an immovable time rift, holding them in perfect stasis. They cannot move or act in anyway, 
but are likewise impervious to harm as none can cross into the stasis field without temporally freezing themselves as well. 
Castable outside combat only. 4 round casting lag, level/10 duration. 

As $n's spell is woven, a stasis field blazes and then fades, rendering you immobile! 
A stasis field blazes into existence around $N, and $e suddenly ceases all movement! 

You feel free to move once more, as the stasis field loses its effect. 
The stasis field containing $N disappears. 

(27) stasis wall 
Like stasis field, this spell creates an immovable temporal barrier which cannot be passed through. Castable outside combat 
only. 4 round casting lag, level/10 duration. 

Syntax: c 'stasis wall' n 

$n gestures, and an immovable temporal barrier snaps into existence to the $d! ($d = direction) 

You try to move to the $d, but a stasis wall flickers and holds you back. 
$N tries to move to the $d, but is halted by a stasis wall. 

The stasis wall to the $d fades away. 

(29) claudication 
The opposite of celerity, this powerful spell doubles movement lag (is not stackable with other movement lag - "Their 
movements are already being slowed.") 2 round casting lag, level/5 duration. 

You suddenly feel your movements slow considerably. 
$N sags and begins moving as through through water. 

Your movements regain their natural speed. 

(33) prudence 
This spell speeds a chronomancer's perceptions to the point where he can detect another chronomancer who is rushing. Castable 
outside combat only. 2 round casting lag, level/3 duration. 

You feel your eyes tighten and begin to focus very intently. 
$n's eyes flare with active intensity. 

You feel your vision become less intent. 

(35) prospicience 
This spell further speeds a chronomancer's perceptions, heightening his reflexes and actually giving him very short glimpses 
into the future. Prospicience is a very powerful spell, making a chronomancer possibly the best tank in the game. Against a 
single opponent, he is all but invincible, able to block or dodge 99% of attacks. Against two, he is still better than the 
best of warriors or defensive forms. Against three, he is as good as a single well-practiced warrior might be against another 
single warrior. Against four, his ability begins to fail him occasionally, and after four it is all but useless, as he can see 
the attacks coming but cannot possibly parry them when they come from seven different directions at once. Castable outside 
combat only. 6 round casting lag, level/5 duration. 

Your thoughts and motions become very quick, clear and precise. 
$n begins moving with incredible grace and dexterity. 

Your thoughts and motions slow down, and you no longer glimpse the future. 

(36) rush 
Allows the chronomancer to move very rapidly in a room, too fast for the unenhanced viewer's eyes to see. A chronomancer might 
be given the 'steal' skill, because for my money, moving that fast would make one a pretty decent thief. After too long in 
this state, though, his clothing begins to burn. Castable outside combat only. 6 round casting lag, 2 round vis lag (not 
shortened by pernicity). Vis with 'slow' command. 

You begin to rush back and forth, gaining speed until you are unable to be seen. 
$n begins to rush around the area, gaining speed until he cannot be seen. 

You forcibly slow yourself back to a normal pace. 

1-5 hours in rush state: no effect 
6-7 hours in rush state: You feel your equipment heating up. 
8 hours in rush state: Some of your clothing bursts into flame! 
Room echo: Small wisps of smoke appear in the room. 
1d3 pieces of flammable clothing begin to burn. 
9 hours in rush state: Your clothing begins to burn furiously! 
Room echo: Smoke begins to fill the area, and flames pop in and out of existence. 
All pieces of flammable clothing begin to burn. 
10 hours in rush state: You slow down and begin batting at the flames on your clothing! 
Room echo: $n suddenly appears, furiously batting at $s flaming clothing! 

Interesting possibility: Chronomancers might be able to remain in rush state indefinitely if they remove all their clothing. 
Discuss. 

(38) providence 
A highly advanced version of pernicity, providence allows a chronomancer to so speed his perceptions and movements that he is 
too well-prepared to be lagged out of combat. He can still be bashed/tripped/thrown/pincered, etc, but all in-combat lagging 
skills are reduced to one round of lag for the chronomancer (and not reduced for the lagger, thus spamming bash becomes a bad 
tactic). Castable outside combat only. 4 round casting lag, level/6 duration. 

Your heightened perceptions prepare you for combat. 
$n seems to move more cautiously, as though prepared for anything. 

You feel less prepared. 

(40) temporal discord 
The chronomancer creates clashing flows of temporality around a target, warping his perceptions so that he cannot function 
properly. One minute flies by, the next moves at a crawl, and the target finds himself stumbling around for the duration of 
the spell. This would have a chance of causing the target to pass out entirely, and would create a displacement effect 
regardless of unconsciousness. Preys on low int. Begins combat only. 4 round casting lag, level/10 duration. 

Your world suddenly begins moving erratically, and you are unable to focus! 
$N jerks suddenly, and begins staggering and trying in vain to focus. 

You find it easier to move and concentrate. 

Your world suddenly turns upside down, and you lose consciousness. 
$N jerks suddenly, staggers a bit and then passes out. 

You wake from troubled sleep, and try to shake the cobwebs from your mind. 

(40) senesce 
This spell causes the target to age very rapidly, and very suddenly. It does (8d24 + level) damage, and is a str/dex 
malediction (level/6 str, level/6 dex) which causes hits from aging every tick (3d8). Also has a small chance (10-20%, save 
vs. int) to increase the target's age_mod by 2 or 3 points permanently. Begins combat only. Is NOT stackable or re-castable 
for damage ("They have already been aged.") 6 round casting lag, level/5 duration. 

You gasp in agony as $n tears years of your life away! 
You pluck years away from $N, aging $m rapidly! 

With a rush, you feel your youth return to you. 
With a rush, you feel some of your youth return to you. (if age_mod has been increased) 


Runes: 

A character can only be affected by one armor rune and one weapon rune at a given time. 

Syntax: rune [rune type] [rune imbuement] 
For example: rune weapon pernicity or rune portal 'stasis wall' n 
Runes are magical symbols drawn on matter at first, and in the air invisibly as the chronomancer learns more, which imbue said 
matter or space with time-related properties. Chronomancers may imbue runes with any spells they've learned which are 
appropriate to a rune imbuement [these spells listed below]. A runespell is cast at the time that the rune is triggered (door 
passed through, weapon/armor worn, room entered) at (level * spell % * rune skill %) level. For example, a level 50 
chronomancer inscribing a rune of celerity with celerity at 90% and rune at 75% would imbue a level 34 rune. Thus, it's 
definitely a good idea to perfect things, but not at all necessary. All rune imbuements have a four round lag (2 after 
pernicity). 

Concentrating intently, you inscribe a rune onto (weapon name/armor name). 
Concentrating intently, $n inscribes a rune onto (weapon name/armor name). 

Running your hands over the portal, you imbue it with a powerful rune. 
Running $s hands over the portal, $n imbues it with a powerful rune. 

Tracing a glowing pattern before you, you create a rune in midair. 
$n moves $s hands in archaic patterns, tracing a glowing line in midair. 

Rune Types: 

(18) weapon runes 
The simplest of the rune types to learn, it involves inscribing a few symbols into a weapon and imbuing it with temporal 
properties for a duration. The rune triggers when the weapon is worn. 

Example: Wielding (weapon name), you suddenly feel your thoughts moving faster! 

(20) armor runes 
Same as weapon runes, inscribed into armor rather than weapons. More difficult to learn because familiarity isn't as strong 
between armor and its wearer as between a weapon and its wielder. Rune triggers when armor is worn. 

Example: As you wear (armor name), you suddenly feel your thoughts moving faster! 

(30) portal runes 
Far more difficult than simple weapon and armor runes, this is the first type of rune which could be considered a trap. Etched 
into a doorframe, it remains dormant until being triggered by someone passing through the door. 

Example: As you pass through the door, a stasis wall snaps into existence behind you! 

(45) spatial runes 
The most complex runes are not drawn into physical objects, but scribed into the air with a finger, glowing for a moment then 
fading to invisibility. These are also "traps," firing off when someone enters the room. 

Example: A rune flares in midair momentarily as you stumble through it, suddenly confining you within a stasis field! 

Rune Imbuements: 

(12) pernicity 
(14) celerity 
(22) langour
(25) stasis field 
(27) stasis wall (portal only) 
(29) claudication 
(40) temporal discord 

