THE MOBS:

Dragon/Hydra/Gryphon Troopers, all level 45.  Each serves a different purpose in 
the group, and all three act in concert to take down any criminal through use of 
tactics.  

The Gryphon Trooper (2410) could be considered either a Duelist or a Tactician.  A 
consummate and graceful warrior, he has 1500 hps, 8 hit 23 dam, 100 AC, and 90% 
dam_mod.  The Gryphon dual wields swords and is the trio's tank, and ideally will 
be the only one fighting.  Has all detects and is marked with multiple OFF/ACT/AFF 
flags to make him as close to the perfect leader/tank as is possible.

The Hydra Trooper (2409) is basically a "Light-Arms Dude" (or Skirmisher).  Very 
small and light, quick and dextrous, he has 1000 hps, 4 hit 38 dam, 50 AC, and 
100% dam_mod.  The Hydra wears a dagger and a lasso (lariat), and his duty is 
generally to dart about tangling the feet of a target.  Will ideally do no direct 
fighting.

The Dragon Trooper (2408) might be considered a Dragoon -- very large and heavy, 
having 2500 hps, 4 hit 158 dam, 600 AC, and 80% dam_mod.  The Dragon wields a 
"chokerstaff," and his function is not to fight, but to basically knock the target 
to the ground and subdue him, once he's been immobilized.

THE FLAG:

At the time of a PC-to-PC attack, the one who initiates combat (** causes an 
autoyell **) is flagged as the "aggressor."  All cityguards and soldiers are aggro 
to any so flagged.  Cityguards may be bribed beforehand to ignore an aggressor 
(lasts for 12 ticks), but soldiers cannot be bribed at all.  The aggressor flag 
remains active on the PC until he is killed or remains in hiding (out of the city) 
for 12 ticks.

THE ROUTE:

I will define sectors in the city via lists of vnums, flagging rooms if necessary. 
I will also plan and assemble routes for each group of soldiers to walk/run, from 
which every room of the city is visible on a line-of-sight basis.  Whatever's 
necessary to make the following possible.

The groups will be positioned in several (8-12, perhaps, it hasn't been planned 
out yet) places around the city, and will patrol their routes slowly (one room per 
2-3 rounds).  When a PC autoyell is triggered, the trio which is based in the 
sector where the attack has taken place begins to walk its route as quickly as 
possible (without being instantaneous, i.e. "e;s;e;e;e;s;s") and scanning in each 
direction.  If the "aggressor" moves to a different sector, then that sector's 
group of soldiers becomes active and begins hunting.  When the group sees the 
aggressor along one of these lines of sight, it makes a beeline and begins its 
attack.  If the aggressor flees, the group takes up pursuit, tracking as per a 
normal mob at an accelerated pace -- but never leaving its assigned sector.

THE ATTACK:

First, the Gryphon Trooper rescues the victim, ceasing combat between aggressor 
and victim.  In the same move, the Gryphon Trooper uses the 'disrupt formation' 
skill to open combat if there's a group present.

Round 1:
"A Gryphon Trooper shoulders (victim) aside and steps in front of (aggressor)!"
"A Gryphon Trooper darts in to strike (aggressor), weaving around chaotically!"

What happens from this point on varies depending upon the aggressor's race.

-For sidhe, halflings, and imps:
Round 2 (60% chance to be trapped by net while attempting to flee at this point):
"A Dragon Trooper tosses a net over (aggressor) and pins the edges down with his 
feet!"

Round 3 (combat ceases):
"Leaping upon (aggressor), a Hydra Trooper ties the net tightly, immobilizing $m."
"A Gryphon Trooper snorts derisively."

-For humans, elves, drow, dwarves and duergar:
Round 2 (40% chance to have flee attempt blocked by Dragon Trooper):
"Moving in from behind, a Dragon Trooper begins to position himself behind 
(aggressor)."

Round 3 (90% chance to fail flee attempt in Dragon Trooper's clutches):
"A Dragon Trooper wraps his massive arms around (aggressor), holding $m tightly!"
"Diving at (aggressor)'s legs, a Hydra Trooper attempts to catch $s flailing 
legs!"

Round 4 (combat ceases):
"Tying off his lariat, a Hydra Trooper trips (aggressor) to the ground!"
"A Gryphon Trooper smirks."

-For titans and minotaurs:
Round 2 (can still flee):
"A Dragon Trooper slams the ring of his chokerstaff down around (aggressor)'s 
head!"

Round 3 (80% chance to be tripped up while attempting to flee at this point):
"Darting in from the side, a Hydra Trooper weaves his lariat around (aggressor)'s 
legs!"
"A Dragon Trooper yanks his chokerstaff, pulling (aggressor) off balance!"

Round 4 (can no longer flee):
"The massive chokerstaff of a Dragon Trooper topples (aggressor) to the ground!"
"A Gryphon Trooper leaps upon (aggressor), holding him down."

Round 5 (combat ceases):
"A Hydra Trooper finishes his bindings, tightening them to immobilize aggressor)."
"A Dragon Trooper chuckles politely."

THE REST:

Obviously, the smaller you are, the less probability you have of successfully 
escaping the three soldiers.  Once combat has ended and you're immobilized by 
their bindings, you can't move, cast, or commune at all.  The aggressor's inert 
form is dragged out the nearest gate:

Personal echo:
"You hear the wet sounds of impact against your skull, and everything goes black."
Room echo:
"(aggressor)'s inert form is dragged away toward the gates."

Player goes to sleep and is transferred to some holding room for 2 ticks, and then 
is transferred to one of Cimar's five gates, depending upon the sector he was 
subdued in:

Personal echo:
"You are shaken awake by a fuzzy man, as seen through your own personal haze."
Room echo:
"(aggressor) is tossed out the gates of Cimar and lands rather roughly."

The soldiers then send the aggressor a tell along the lines of, "And don't come 
back, dirty little imp."  (Obligatory racial slurs for each race.)  The flag does 
remain for 12 ticks, and the aggressor is warned not to return.

If, while the soldiers are doing their business, the victim or one of the 
aggressor's former groupmates initiates an attack (causes a yell), the soldiers 
move to him once they finish with the original aggressor.  If someone else 
initiates an attack in the same sector, the soldiers move over there once they're 
done.  Only once all fighting has ceased do the soldiers resume their patrol.

Should the Gryphon Trooper be killed, the remaining soldiers will jump the
aggressor and attempt to kill him.

Obviously, there's room for improvement, and a lot of details that could be added. 
And I have a lot of echoes and such to write before this is fully fleshed out, but 
there's plenty of other work to be done on this system before that's even an issue 
(problems ironed out, creation of sectors and patrol paths, etc).  One thing I/we
need to figure out is what to do in special cases such as aggressors who manage
to kill their victims before being caught, assassins who kill silently right in
front of the soldiers, and particularly what to do in the case of thievery.

Not to mention repeat offenders.  This isn't deterrent as it stands... only an
irritation of a barrier.  Repeatedly incurring an "aggressor" flag should
eventually lead to deaths.
